1) abstract/summary

The use of multitasking in software has increased in recent years. A very common model utilized for
achieving multitasking is that based on an event-loop and callbacks. The event-based model defines
multitasking functionality in a, compared to other existing frameworks, intuitive and effective way.
  However, we believe that the use of existing event-based frameworks is not without problems.
In particular, we believe that the callback abstraction tends to be overused, introducing the
possibility for interruption in places where a regular, atomic procedure would be preferred.
We speculate that this behavior has made applications susceptible to atomicity violations, a form of concurrency bug.
  In our project we searched for patterns constituting the necessary preconditions for atomicity violations
in event-based runtime environments. Functionality for recording the data required was generally not provided.
In order to obtain the data, we had to dig into and modify the core of the environments,
including Chromium and Node.js.

2) background & central concepts

2.1) What is multitasking?
Multitasking is the concept of performing multiple tasks over a certain period of time. That is,
instead of executing the tasks sequentially so that each started task runs to completion before
a new one can start, new tasks start and interrupt already started ones before these have completed. 
As a result, a computer executes segments of multiple tasks in an interleaved manner, while the
tasks share common resources such as CPU and memory.

Multitasking is useful in various contexts. For heavily interactive contexts, that is, applications
with rich user interaction and network communication such as browsers, multitasking is essential to
good performance. Without multitasking, your favorite Internet browser would start hanging (that is,
become unresponsive to your input) very frequently.

2.2) Atomic versus Interruptible tasks
A task is interruptible if control can transfer to a different task during its execution.
A task  is atomic if multitasking is not possible while the task is running. That is,
the procedure has to complete before any other task can run.

2.3) The event model
In event frameworks, all regular procedure calls are atomic. Interruptibility is introduced via a
type of statement that takes the form of a first-order function. The function argument is referred
to as a callback and is run [added to the event loop] in response to the completion of an operation,
an event, as defined by the caller function. The event could be, among other things, a mouse click (1),
the receiving of a network request (2), or the complete elapse of a given time (3).

          (1) document.getElementById("myButton").addEventListener("click", <some callback function>);

          (2) navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(<some callback function>);

          (3) setTimeout(<some callback function>, <some amount of time>)

The caller function is decoupled from the callback. That is, the runtime can go on and execute
other code while waiting for the caller operation (whether it’s a network request or the elapse
of some time) to complete, hence introducing the possibility of interruption.

2.4) Atomicity violation TODO: explain atomicity violation
Interruptibility is often preferred for the sake of performance, but it also introduces the risk
for an atomicity violation. [explain atomicity violation]
In general, when the function to be applied is fast, atomicity is
preferred since the risk of starvation is low. On the other hand, when the function will take a
long time we probably want it to be interruptible, in order to avoid unresponsiveness

2.5) Continuation Tree TODO: ...
A continuation tree is the callback hierarchy of an application.

2.6) JavaScript runtime environments
JavaScript is a widely used scripting language that uses the event-based framework. JavaScript
runtime environments, environments that run applications written in JavaScript, include browsers
(Chrome, Firefox, Safari, etc.), Node.js and Electron.

3) Results TODO: include illustrative graph
i)	instrumenting Chrome (using event-tracer)
ii)	instrumenting Chromium

4) Discussion
-	Many applications are composed of tons of extremely short callbacks.
-	Sometimes there are chains of callbacks that typically execute in short succession.
-	If some other action happened in the middle of such a chain, it could cause a concurrency bug.
